So what is cryptocurrency?
There are differing opinions.
So Jamie Dimon of JP Morgan says,
cryptocurrency is a fraud,
worse than tulip bulbs.
Warren Buffet says, cryptocurrency
is probably rat poison squared.
And he goes on to say,
if I could buy a five year put on
every one of the cryptocurrencies,
I'd be glad to do it, but
I would never short a dime's worth.
Interesting, so what is cryptocurrency?
So, the title of
Nouriel Roubini's congressional
testimony answers the question as follows.
Crypto is the mother of all scams and
now busted bubbles,
while Blockchain is the most
over-hyped technology ever,
no better than a spreadsheet/database.
Or is cryptocurrency the future of money?
As a FinTech-crazed fellow finance
Professor once said to me,
will our grandchildren or
great grandchildren be asking us,
what were you doing when
money was being created?
So let's consider bitcoin.
Probably the biggest myth about
bitcoin is that it's an actual coin.
Well, it's not.
It's not an actual coin.
It's a unit of exchange.
At the moment, bitcoins are trading
at $3,772.38 per one bitcoin.
But fortunately,
it's not necessary to buy a whole bitcoin.
The smallest unit to trade
bitcoins is one satoshi or
one hundred millionth of a bitcoin.
Here's the outline of this lecture.
First, I will discuss
transacting in bitcoin.
So if we want to understand
why bitcoin might be popular,
we need to ask what exactly is currency?
Bitcoin is a cash-alternative to currency,
so
we're going to talk about
cash-alternatives currently in use.
Given that we have some pretty
good cash-alternatives, and
new ones all the time,
we can ask why then cryptocurrency?
And then finally, concluding thoughts.